[EN/ID] Rewrite "Geki" and "Katu" (#4242)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Geki/en.md

*See also: [Katu](/wiki/Katu)*

> **Geki (激)**, or *Elite Beat!*, is a [scoring](/wiki/Score) term used when a player has completed a comboset with the highest possible [accuracy](/wiki/Gameplay/Accuracy) on every note.

Author: ok so change into combo instead comboset right? Since I'm just adding example and such explanation. Gotta take a note on this.

> **Geki (激)**, or *Elite Beat!*, is a [scoring](/wiki/Score) term used when a player has completed a comboset with the highest possible [accuracy](/wiki/Gameplay/Accuracy) on every note.

Reviewer: yeah, and this still needs to be addressed (for both Geki and Katu articles)

By obtaining a Geki, health bar gain bonus obtained is stronger than just ending a comboset with a non-Geki 300s.

This idea originates from the Nintendo DS game Elite Beat Agents in which the [osu!standard](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode) is based on.

## Screenshots

In here provided the screenshots of obtaining a Geki/Elite Beat from Elite Beat Agents, Ouendan 2, and osu! itself.

![](img/eba-bornlove-300g.jpg) ![](img/oto-sambomaster-300g.jpg)

> ![](img/osu-lonelest-300g.jpg)

Reviewer: this screenshot needs to be resized down to 1280×720

## Other game modes

### osu!taiko

> Geki is only shown on result screen to show all big note hitting succession.

Author: yes. according to skinning section it says Geki only shows up on result screen which accumulates all "finishers that hit using both keys on same frame" or something closely like that.

### osu!catch

Geki shows that the completed the comboset without breaking any single combo.

### osu!mania

> Geki is to determine a **MAX** or a "320", as the mode calculates this judgment as the base of maximum score instead a 300 itself. There's no accuracy difference between a 300 and a MAX in osu!mania, therefore this judgment gives extra score with same accuracy.

Reviewer: uhh, this is probably what you wanted to say, right?
```suggestion
Geki is shown as a sprite with rainbow-coloured `MAX` written over it. During the score calculation process, it is worth 320 points instead of 300. There's no accuracy difference between a 300 and a MAX in osu!mania.
```

## Other game aspects

### Storyboard (DS Games)

> Geki triggers the best tier on the storyboard during the gameplay. Usually shown with very strong spirit shown during the sequence.

Reviewer: not sure what you mean here either, but did my best (by the way, is "the best tier" an existing term? is it something like osu!'s fail/pass layers?)

```suggestion
Geki triggers the best tier on the storyboard during the gameplay, which usually shows a very strong spirit during the sequence.
```

### Storyboard (osu!)

> Storyboard in osu! mostly intended for osu!standard. Obtaining Geki make several events occurs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storyboards in osu! are mostly intended for osu!standard. Obtaining Geki makes several events occur:
```

> - Fail Layer deactivates.
> - Pass Layer activates.
> - Triggers "Passing" handler if transitioning from Fail state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Fail Layer](/wiki/Storyboard_Scripting/General_Rules#layers) is deactivated.
- [Pass Layer](/wiki/Storyboard_Scripting/General_Rules#layers) is activated.
- "Passing" event is triggered, if the previous state was Fail.
```

*See also: [Katu](/wiki/Katu)*

**Geki (激)**, or *Elite Beat!*, is a [scoring](/wiki/Score) term used when a player has completed a comboset with the highest possible [accuracy](/wiki/Gameplay/Accuracy) on every note.

By obtaining a Geki, health bar gain bonus obtained is stronger than just ending a comboset with a non-Geki 300s.

This idea originates from the Nintendo DS game Elite Beat Agents in which the [osu!standard](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode) is based on.

## Screenshots

In here provided the screenshots of obtaining a Geki/Elite Beat from Elite Beat Agents, Ouendan 2, and osu! itself.

![](img/eba-bornlove-300g.jpg) ![](img/oto-sambomaster-300g.jpg)

![](img/osu-lonelest-300g.jpg)

> ## On other game modes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Other game modes
```

### osu!taiko

> Geki is only shown on result screen to show all big note hitting succession.

Reviewer 2: Doesn't it also show over the approach circle when you hit a big note during game play? Maybe I'm reading this wrong.

Author: Sorry for the late reply, apparently it's `hit300k` that being used for "Both Side Big Note" hit.

### osu!catch

Geki shows that the completed the comboset without breaking any single combo.

### osu!mania

> Geki is to determine a **MAX** or a "320", as the mode calculates this judgment as the base of maximum score instead a 300 itself.
> There's no accuracy difference between a 300 and a MAX in osu!mania, therefore this judgment gives extra score with same accuracy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Geki is to determine a **MAX** or a "320", as the mode calculates this judgment as the base of maximum score instead a 300 itself. There's no accuracy difference between a 300 and a MAX in osu!mania, therefore this judgment gives extra score with same accuracy.
```

## Other game aspects

### Storyboard (DS Games)

Geki triggers the best tier on the storyboard during the gameplay. Usually shown with very strong spirit shown during the sequence.

### Storyboard (osu!)

> Storyboard in osu! mostly intended for osu!standard mode.
> Obtaining Geki make several events occurs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Storyboard in osu! mostly intended for osu!standard. Obtaining Geki make several events occurs:
```

**Geki (激)**, or *Elite Beat!*, is a [scoring](/wiki/Score) term used when a player has completed a comboset with the highest possible [accuracy](/wiki/Gameplay/Accuracy) on every note.

> Geki gives a higher HP gain, compared to a combo ending with a non-Geki 300s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Geki gives a higher HP gain, compared to a combo ending with a non-Geki 300.
```
